doc: coding style: Introduce a naming conventions section (#89765)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/glossary.rst

      architecture to implement an interrupt vector table. The IDT is used
      to determine the correct response to interrupts and exceptions.

   internal API

>       Any internal function, structure or macro defined anywhere in the zephyr

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Any internal function, structure or macro defined anywhere in the Zephyr
```

      architecture to implement an interrupt vector table. The IDT is used
      to determine the correct response to interrupts and exceptions.

   internal API
      Any internal function, structure or macro defined anywhere in the Zephyr
      source tree. Internal APIs are intended to "extend" Zephyr, and are to be
      used only between certain :term:`software components <software
      component>`, usually in-tree but in some cases out-of-tree (e.g. adding an
      out-of-tree architecture or driver). Applications must not invoke

>       internal APIs outside their own scope.. The context where the API is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      internal APIs outside their own scope. The context where the API is
```

      Power gating reduces power consumption by shutting off areas of an
      integrated circuit that are not in use.

   public symbol
      Any function, structure or macro defined inside the ``include/zephyr``

>       folder that is intended for use by applications or drivers.

Reviewer 2: Isn't any function/struct/macro meant to be used by application or drivers?

Regardless, my fear with flagging the whole `include/zephyr` namespace as "public" we'll start talking about more barriers for API changes, some files in there may not be meant to be "public" but are just there so they can used by modules.

Reviewer 3: Some private APIs, structs, and macros exist in `include/zephyr`, but normally we try to hide those from Doxygen. I think generally public API is what is doxygenated.

I would maybe suggest changing the wording here to any "public API"?

Author: I suggest we discuss this tomorrow in the Arch WG meeting.

>       Any function, structure or macro defined inside the ``include/zephyr``
>       folder that is intended for use by applications or drivers.

Author: ```suggestion
      Any public function, structure or macro defined inside the ``include/zephyr``
      folder.
```

      Power gating reduces power consumption by shutting off areas of an
      integrated circuit that are not in use.

   private API
      Any private function, structure or macro defined anywhere in the zephyr source
      tree. Private APIs are only intended for consumption inside the
      :term:`software component` where they are defined.

   public API
      Any public function, structure or macro defined inside the ``include/zephyr``
      folder. Public APIs are intended for consumption by any and all in-tree or

>       out-of-tree :term:`software components <software component>`.

Reviewer 2: Following up from @henrikbrixandersen comment at arch wg: there's few subsystems that use "common" struct in their driver definitions (gpio, can, regulator, input kbd...). These are often defined in the same file as the proper application API, for instance `include/zephyr/drivers/gpio.h` has both `struct gpio_driver_config` and `gpio_pin_set_dt`.

They could be used for an out-of-tree driver, but it seems like they should belong to different categories stability wise, so putting everything in `include/zephyr` under the same umbrella seems excessive. Is the expectations that such APIs/structs gets the `_priv_` infix?

Reviewer: I agree.
As a side comment, code organization wise, maybe those APIs should not be in the same header as the app facing API. (sometimes we put them in 1 file, just because it is easy).

Reviewer 2: Yeah it feels like we are moving in the direction of a header split, something like the Linux uapi one.

      A number of different :term:`SoCs <SoC>` that share similar characteristics and
      features, and that the vendor typically names and markets together.

   software component
      A software component is a self-contained, modular, and replaceable part of

>       the Zephyr source code. A driver, a subsystem or an applications are all

Author: Internal APIs are internal to a single software component as they are described, so an application can use its own application internal APIs, but not internal APIs of other components.

>       the Zephyr source code. A driver, a subsystem or an applications are all

Reviewer 4: > Internal APIs are intended to "extend" Zephyr, and are to be
      used only between certain :term:`software components <software component>`,
      usually in-tree but in some cases out-of-tree (e.g. adding an out-of-tree
      architecture or driver).

maybe you need to clarify that internal APIs shall not be used by applications. The above does say that and it is vague. i.e. an application shall not use the arch_ interface....
